+++
title = "Drinking from a Firehose"
subtitle = ""
tags = ['code']
date = '2011-06-27'

# For description meta tag
description = "Drinking from a Firehose"

# Comment next line and the default banner wil be used.
banner = 'img/phil-goodwin-TxP44VIqlA8-unsplash.jpg'
bannerCredit='<span>Photo by <a href="https://unsplash.com/@fhlcreative?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Phil Goodwin</a> on <a href="https://unsplash.com/s/photos/hose?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>'
+++

Whenever I interview a person for an open position I always ask the
person how they keep up-to-date and keep their knowledge set relevant
with industry trends and new technologies. The answer can tell you a
lot about the person across the table from you, and the beauty of the
question is that it gives you lots of opportunity for follow-up
questions so its easy to determine if the candidate is being honest.

This makes it really easy to separate the wheat from the chaff. Some
candidates don't do anything to stay current, or say that they a book
that is 10 years old (and can't remember anything about it.) Others
tell me that they follow tech. news, read blogs, contribute to
open-source, utilize twitter. Its easy to see when someone has passion
and pride for the work they do.

That all being said, while I am trying to evaluate the candidate for
the job, I'm also hoping that they will give me good ideas for how to
improve my own content consumption pipeline. I am constantly striving
to become better as a person, as an engineer, and as a general
technologist. Scouring the Internet is one way to find new technology
and new ways to learn, but you typically need people to reframe your
vision or to open your eyes to new possibilities. I've learned a lot
from interviewees.

So, in the spirit of sharing, I wanted to take the time out to
document how I consume content and try to stay relevant and learn new
things. Hopefully in exchange, I can get some great ideas from
readers.

# Step One: Content Acquisition

The first stage of the process is content acquisition. I try to cast a
pretty broad net here. Google Reader is my savior here. I get feeds
from a ton of place including web comics (SMBC, XKCD), tech news (TNW,
Wired), Lifestyle (Uncrate, Acquire), individuals blogs (Bad
Astronomy, Al3x), and individual post discussions for interesting
posts, or posts that I have commented on so that i can follow the
conversation and continue to participate.

In addition to blogs I also keep TweetDeck running and try to dip into
my Twitter stream a few times a day to see what is happening (lots of
stuff comes from @hnfirehose, some of it is good, some of it is junk
but you can quickly separate the wheat from the chaff.) I really love
[Instapaper](http://instapaper.com) and how it integrates into Twitter
for iPhone. I use the Instapaper bookmarklet and hook it up on my
iPhone so that when i find something good i can save it to read later
when I have time to focus on reading.

I also learn about a lot of new things from co-workers and friends via
word of mouth, from books (I keep a list of books I want to read (tech
and otherwise) on Goodreads), and magazines (I really like
Communications of the ACM.)

# Step Two: Content Shaping

Step one results in a lot of data to sift through, so I try to go
through my Google Reader every day and clear out everything. I will
read or skim some articles right then and there, but for the most part
I take the articles that I think are interesting and I save them in
Instapaper.

# Step Three: Content Consumption and the Feedback Loop

Once I have pruned all of that content into something that is roughly
manageable it typically ends up in Instapaper. At first I wasn't sold
on Instapaper but, as I outlined above, i've come to depend on it. I
like that I can use it on almost every device I have and that on my
iPhone I can download and archive articles for reading on planes, etc.

I try to find 30 minutes or 1 hour each day to actually read through
the stuff that has gotten into Instapaper. This doesn't always happen
so I end up with a sizeable backlog that I try to manage. Some of the
news related items "go stale" and just get removed but many of the
technical articles will be good whenever I do get to them. When I find
a blog article I really like or I think would be interesting to people
I know i share it. Sometimes this is personal emails, sometimes it is
Twitter, sometimes I note it in my
[Google Reader public stream](http://www.google.com/reader/shared/Adam.Schepis). When
I find a blog I really like via a Hacker News article or through a
cross-link I typically add it to my Google Reader so that I can follow
that writer in the future.

When I comment on blogs I always add the blog post's comment stream
RSS to my Google Reader so that I can keep up with the conversation. I
set up a specific "Conversations" tag in my Google Reader for
these. After a few weeks (or whenever the conversation dies down) I
remove these.

# Step Four: I'm pretty sure that I forget a lot of good things!

Once i've gone through and perused the stuff that seems interesting
and dug into the stuff that is really interesting some of it gets put
to use immediately, some of it sticks with me, some of it embeds
itself deep in my brain and comes out at random times ("hey, i saw a
plugin that does that.. let me google and find what it was") and some
of it is just lost. I think that most of what I lose are individual
libraries and things that I'd like to try but have no immediate use
for. I'd love to be able to put these things in my toolbelt, but I
don't have a good place for them that I use regularly that is
searchable.

So... How do you stay current? How do you keep up to date with the
latest libraries and technologies in fast growing communities? Two
place that I think would be great to learn from that I want to focus
on improving are attending local user groups, and contributing to
open-source.

How do you keep this stuff from slipping right in to one ear and out
the other? Do you have a repository that acts as a final resting place
for things that you have no use for immediately but that you want to
use in the future? How do you search it? How do you organize it?

Help me out!
